jobs you know the thing every kid gets
asked about I want to be I want to be a
lawyer lawyer highway pilot patty and a
dad a poly appraiser that I want to be
an artist that goes around painting
walls I the feedback doctor moving
around me doctor Oh
a mermaid doctor I mean sure everyone
wants to be a mermaid doctor until that
is you have to do your first mermaid
colonoscopy two things that you know
about a mermaids are soul kid and you
may as well learn them now one no matter
where you're picturing it that's not
where it is and to no one comes out the
same person they went in a part of you
dies in there and you'll spend the rest
of your life trying to get it back
anyway jobs were a major theme in Donald
Trump's presidential campaign along with
of course walls
taco bowls allegations of sexual assault
and admissions of sexual assaults but
the Trump's primary focus as candidate
and president has been on jobs
specifically who was stealing them
whether it's China or Japan or Mexico
they're all taking our jobs
now Vietnam that's the new one they are
taking our jobs the jobs are being taken
by India our jobs were stolen away and
shipped far away to other countries some
of which you've never even heard of yes
all jobs are being stolen by countries
you've never even heard of although try
to remember that this is coming from the
man who reportedly referred to Nepal and
Bhutan as nipple and butter so for truck
countries you've never heard of could
just mean bulgy areola
Bob's anus boring urethra honda rice
ankle fat hamster fence jeremy bikini
fatso the sulfur bulls Enya and hater
vagina gay water but swallow licking
time
Pocahontas looks and blush hot girl with
jizz in her hair
my taco grenade the one that sounds like
a but bad Asia Slim Shady Kato bold
that
daddy fat hamster nice lesbian Russia
Macarena badge Lance pool and Pamela
marinara Seagal pillow Russia Jarrod's
friends
Santa kitten orbit more titties guitar
pair of gays samosas toga to go feeling
pains the median gross lettuce you're a
gay Zumba janitor Magnolia and Hotel for
Dogs no wait the other one the one
that's not for dogs hotel that one
basically stealing your jobs look some
manufacturing jobs are gone because they
went overseas but Trump is completely
ignoring another major factor behind job
losses Automation its impact has been
massive you wouldn't know it from how
Trump talks but our manufacturing sector
now produces twice as much as it did in
1984 but we produce it with one-third
fewer workers the point is many of those
jobs aren't being stolen they are
disappearing because machines are now
doing them and thanks to advances in AI
and robotics there are concerns that
this sort of job loss could accelerate
in fact a few years back some people got
very concerned when an Oxford University
study came out with a startling number
an Oxford University study says that up
to half of all jobs in the US are at
risk to automation they new study which
suggests many of us may lose our jobs
because of robots a robo is probably
going to take your job that's according
to a new Oxford University study but
that's close to 50% of the workforce
being completely eliminated as in no
more jobs for them Wow
50% of all our jobs will be gone that is
terrifying for you luckily a robot could
never be a late-night host it make basic
mistakes like say devoting 90 seconds of
airtime to a list of dumb names Trump
might have for other countries
how weird would that be it's called
pacing robots look it up you don't do a
massive list of names before you've
introduced the thesis of your piece
anyway the thesis of this piece is that
what people often talk about automation
in apocalyptic terms the truth is
everything about it is more complicated
than you think
including that half your jobs will be
gone Oxford study so tonight let's talk
about automation let's begin with the
fact that while it's often presented as
a scary new problem
it's neither entirely scary nor entirely
new from the Industrial Revolution
through the rise of mass production
automation has transformed our society
in ways people have marveled at
sometimes in less than ideal language
power and the highly important
standardization of parts and mass
production with its assembly lines have
created more mechanical slaves for man
mechanical slaves in the machine tool
industry created by man to create more
mechanical slaves the average man in the
United States today is said to have at
his beck and call 20 my chemical slave
slave slave slaves oh how I have missed
them yes
mechanical slaves if you close your eyes
you can forget that they're mechanical
and look there is no doubt mechanical
slaves or machines as a normal person
might describe them have had hugely
beneficial effects they've made goods
cheaper and jobs easier and sometimes
safer take this man he runs a logging
company is different and he's developing
machines to felled trees which would put
his own son out of a job but he's doing
it for a pretty compelling reason if you
have a man on a chainsaw falling trees
they're eventually going to get hurt
logging has the highest death rate of
any American occupation for its size
logging kills people at a higher rate
than the military I've come to the
belief it the only way I can ensure the
safety of my peoples not have them there
the best way not to kill a hand cutters
not half of them he's right the best way
not to kill a hand cutter is not to have
one which presumably means the best way
to kill a hand cutter is to have one so
if you are trying to murder a lumberjack
we best just to hire him and wait also
also don't do it don't do it but if you
really want to that would be how to go
about it which you shouldn't yeah
absolutely shouldn't despite the fact
I've just given you a perfect blueprint
for how to get away with it but again I
want to make this absolutely clear
nobody out there should murder a
lumberjack you just wait for them to die
in an accident is that it's the perfect
crime but the truth is from employer's
point of view the big selling point for
automation is that it increases
productivity and it maximizes profits
and for displaced workers that has
caused immense pain throughout history
and not just in factories for instance
in the 90s as voice recognition
technology improved phone company
operators were rightly worried for their
jobs my first thought was uh-oh here
comes trouble
this is gonna get my job for sure the
first thing I thought about is that this
is gonna be a robot they're not gonna
need as many operators I'm about to lose
my job now talk to some friends of mine
back where I came from from shirt board
in the office and the rumors were
running rampant over there you know like
oh my gosh they're testing this machine
and it's gonna do away with their job
and they're shutting you know we heard
you out they were shutting down y'all's
office and going completely to machines
okay first of all I don't know this
isn't the point here but what the
is going on in Shreveport
Lisa Lee here is your friend and you're
all hey Lisa
you're gonna get fired you three
ports go
you deserve friends who lift you up not
tear you down take a step back and
remember how far you have come
you don't need Shreveport Shreveport
needs you now you pick yourself up and
you show the world what Lisa Lee is
really made of
you go
when you see this story through the eyes
of worried employees you can understand
the deep-seated human urge that many of
us have to see robots come to harm
whether we're joyously retweeting this
photo captioned our DC office building
got a security robot it drowned itself
or just attacking any robot foolish
enough to trust us the idea was to see
how people would interact with a talking
solar powered robot as it hitched across
America on its own tracked by a GPS on
Saturday the robot was found in
Philadelphia the City of Brotherly Love
resting in pieces late today video
surfaced of the attack but the robots
creators are not out for revenge
yeah you're wrong about that it has
absolutely everything to do with
Philadelphia this is a city with a
chronic police horse punching problem
sending a hitchhiking robot into
Philadelphia it's not unlike sending a
beautiful Bell symbolizing freedom into
Philadelphia there is no way it's going
to remain in one piece and there's a
nonzero chance that someone is going to
try and it so so
at this point you may be thinking well
whatever its advantages Automation
throws a lot of people out of work right
well yes
but again it is complicated and the
picture often gets distorted
remember that report from earlier the
one that led to claims that half of our
jobs were going away there are real
concerns about its methodology and other
studies have come up with much lower
numbers but even more importantly it
didn't claim half of jobs would be gone
it suggested some jobs were in the
high-risk category for being automated
and that is actually a very different
thing because a job automated is not
necessarily a job lost frequently
machines don't replace jobs so much as
tasks a good example of this concerns
ATMs it is hard to imagine a time now
that they weren't around but but when
they became common in the 1980s bank
tellers were afraid of them stealing
their jobs of course customers were
sometimes afraid of them for very
different reasons
does it hurt yeah ignoring the old adage
never bite the hand that feeds you the
Bank of America versateller did just
that snap down to Paul's hand while he
was trying to transact business with it
[Music]
that man died that's ridiculous he died
two years later when he got stuck inside
a claw machine that's a fact that's a
fact
what is that fact based on nothing other
than my total conviction that it's true
but but while ATMs did eat the
occasional customer fears of job losses
turned out to be completely overblown
because bank teller employment actually
increased over the next thirty years
what happened was ATMs took over the job
of dispensing cash and tellers were then
freed up to do sales or other work their
jobs didn't go they changed and when
automation does lead to job loss in
certain sectors historically it's also
actually created jobs as these
economists from MIT explains let's do
the following thought exercise it's a
year nineteen hundred and forty percent
of all employment is in agriculture
right and so some twerpy economist from
MIT
he teleports back in time and says a
hundred years from now only two percent
of people will be working in agriculture
what do you think the other 38% of
people are gonna do well I wouldn't know
you would say Oh search engine
optimization you know health and
wellness software and mobile devices
most of what we do
barely existed exactly that's twerpy
economist is right 50 years from now
people will be doing jobs that we can't
imagine right now like crypto baker or
snail rehydrate err or investment
harvest I don't know the point is you
can't imagine them so so we get rid of
some jobs but we get new ones
so that's even-steven right well not
necessarily because the new jobs
Automation creates won't necessarily pay
the same as the ones it takes away and
it might not be easy for displaced
workers to transition into them for
instance right now our economy is
creating lots of jobs in the tech sector
at the same time we have three and a
half million truckers possibly facing
unemployment due to driverless
technology now in an ideal world those
truckers could seamlessly move into
high-tech jobs but as this mat explains
it's just not that easy if the average
age is 55 these guys going to be
computer programmers they didn't finish
high school I doubt it
of course I mean but maybe some fifty
five-year-old truck drivers will become
web designers but if you think all of
them will it might be worth remembering
that time your father accidentally typed
his Google search into Facebook and then
tried to cover it up by putting whiteout
on the computer so so the big question
here is how do you harness what is good
about automation while minimizing the
damage to those hurt by it well the best
thing would be if America were in the
hands of someone nimble and
forward-thinking and unfortunately that
brings us back to this guy and he has
not demonstrated much of a grasp on this
issue just look what happens with the
company called carrier you may remember
right after the election Trump with the
aid of a massive tax break convinced the
CEO of carriers parent company Greg
Hayes not to move one of their factories
to Mexico he made a big deal out of
saving those jobs and he was excited
about what was coming next they're gonna
spend so much money on renovating this
plant and I said Greg say that number
you know he said
ten million well the minimum number 16
it's going to be in my opinion a lot
more than that he said well I'd rather
say the lower number see I'd rather have
him say the higher number so I won't say
it okay it's just a difference in
philosophy do you agree
both are okay but difference in
philosophy but they're gonna spend more
than 60 they're gonna spend a lot of
money on the plant that's it's a
difference in philosophy you see I want
a lie he doesn't want to like both are
ok I'm still gonna lie to you I'm just
gonna do it vaguely for Gregg this lies
for you Gregg Gregg seem to spend way
more than 16 million dollars on the
plants but here's the thing about that
16 million dollars it wasn't actually
good news for the workers as Greg Hayes
made clear just a few days later we're
gonna make up 16 million dollar
investment in that Factory in
Indianapolis to automate to drive the
cost down so that we can continue to be
competitive that ultimately means is
there will be fewer jobs oh great work
mr. president so basically carry workers
are still going to lose their jobs it's
just the government now helped us for
some reason pay for the robots that will
replace them
that is the classic Trump deal making
that you can read all about in his
best-selling book the art of saying
whatever and letting someone else a
different person or hey maybe even a
robot deal with the consequences is that
a good title why not it's a moot point
cuz it's 11:45 a.m. which is basically
noon so that's lunch and the Trump
administration's response alternation
honestly hasn't gotten much better since
because for someone who claims that he
cares so much about the American worker
he's done almost nothing to help people
displaced by automation and there is
frankly plenty that he could be doing
one set of proposals includes funding
retraining ideally retraining that he's
directly tailored to available jobs in
your area that seems like a sensible
idea as does trying to help older
workers who may end up having to take a
new job with a lower salary through
things like wage insurance or an
expanded Earned Income Tax Credit now
all of that will cost money and quite a
lot of it
so Trump will probably revert to his
preferred solution blaming China Vietnam
and other countries you've probably
never even heard of so in the meantime
we need to start preparing younger
workers for the job market that they're
about to enter because the pace of
technological change is now so rapid
some experts suggest that we might need
to start rethinking our basic
section of a career the majority of
people will end up having an episodic
career it's great to ask kids for
example what do you want to be when you
grow up but one thing that might be
added to that question is what five
things do you want to be when you grow
up she's right about that and that means
that the girl from before who said
mermaid doctor may need to come up with
some backup plans
partly because that job may be partially
automated in the future and partly
because let's be honest rising ocean
temperatures are going to kill all the
mermaids it's just a fact they're going
to be boiled alive and look look I've
thrown a lot of complication at you
tonight but the one thing we know for
sure is automation is not going to stop
and some people are going to lose their
job so we should help those that do and
be preparing the next generation for the
possibility that they may need to be
more flexible in their career plans what
do you want to be when you grow up I
want to be an inventor I want to be a
musician under a person who takes people
onto fire then I look like a fashion
designer so are you worried about robots
taking over certain jobs no okay you
might need to be aware of that long term
tell me what you name some jobs and I
will tell you whether I think a robot
could do it or not okay policeman a
robot could do that that's literally
with the plot of Robocop robots could
definitely do that Zoe sorry Kendall
Roberg get wet
yeah robot can get wet that's not a job
but yes or a robot and it works fire
robot with a hose right
a drummer Oh a robot could definitely do
the drums they'd be probably really bad
at basketball robots are actually
incredible in basketball I'm gonna
Google robot drummer right now okay
I just put robot D and it autocorrected
you're definitely faster than the robot
mm-hmm
here's the thing you're definitely not
Lauren do you think a robot could do my
job in the future
shall we take a big story and we try and
inject it with as much nuance as we can
so we really try and get a deep dive
into complicated issues and and then I
present our work you know to the
audience at the end of the week do you
think a robot could do that well what
can I do what can you do that is
actually a good question you can do a
series of non routine tasks that require
social intelligence complex critical
thinking and creative problem solving
okay okay okay can you repeat that back
to me I want to do a series of non
routine tasks I like to do a series and
our mountaintops tasks pass I feel like
you're doing a British accent layers
only that requires social intelligence
social intelligence complex critical
thinking and creative problem solving
and creative problem solving and
creative problem solving that's what you
got to do in the future Zoey yeah okay
is that a deal we did it
I like don't know what it means
[Applause]
you